# anime-database

After working with data abstraction for a few weeks using records and movie databases, I thought about how I wanted to apply the concepts I learned to create something for a conference project. It was fun to work with creating an original database and seeing how much information Scheme could extract using various functions written in class and for homework. For my conference project, I decided to create my own database using anime titles and wrote several functions to extract each piece of information. My database (anime-database) includes fifty anime records. Each anime record includes six pieces of data: the english title, the japanese title, the year the anime was released, the total number of episodes of the anime, a list of their genres, and the original manga creator that inspired the anime. All of these lists are created by the constructor function, make-anime. Each piece of data can be extracted using the following selector functions: get-english-title, get-japanese-title, get-year, get-episodes, get-genres, and get-creator. For my conference project, I created three sets of functions: find functions, animes-with functions, and a find-animes function. 

In my first set of functions, I wrote a find-anime function that takes (predicate? database) as input in order to help search the database for the appropriate piece of information. Each find function uses (english-title, database) as input to help the program extract the piece of information from a single anime record. For example, the find-japanese-title function would extract the japanese title of an anime record. It uses the proper selector function (get-japanese-title), the find-anime function, and an internal lambda function to help locate the english title of the record. To call the function, you would use (find-japanese-title english-title database). If you wanted to find the japanese title for Dragon Ball, simply write (find-japanese-title ‘(dragonball) anime-database) and it should return its japanese title as the output, (doragon boru). This similar structure works for the other find functions: find-year-released, get-num-episodes, get-genres-of, and get-creator-of. 

The animes-with functions extracts and prints a list of the necessary english titles of the database, depending on what common piece of data is entered in the input. Each animes-with function uses a different data input and the database name. The four animes-with functions in my code are animes-with-num-episodes, animes-with-year, animes-with-genres, and animes-with-creator. For example, if I wanted to find animes with a shared manga creator, I would use the animes-with-creator function to do so. To call the function, simply write (animes-with-creator ‘(osamu tezuka) anime-database) and it should return a list of two english titles created by that creator ((astro boy)(dororo)). Each animes-with function uses an internal filter function and lambda function to search through the database for the piece of data that equals its input. Then using the map and get-english-title function, it extracts and compiles the list of anime titles with that same piece of data. 

The final function in my code, find-animes, helps to find several anime titles based on the input. The input structure for this function is (predicate? selector database), meaning it would have to take a lambda expression in the input. For example, if we want to find all animes that were released in 2002, the input would look like this:  (find-animes (lambda (anime) (= (get-year anime) 2002)) get-english-title anime-database). The output would be a list of the english titles of anime released in 2002:  ((azumanga daioh) (chobits) (naruto)).

Even though most of my functions are similarly structured to the ones used for the movies database, I did run into a few errors with my code. When first coding the selector functions, since I had more than four inputs, I would have to edit and add two more selector functions to that list in order for any of my future code to work. After several attempts at fixing the selector function code and revisiting the difference between car and cdr, I finally got my selector functions working and got to coding the remaining functions. Other than these errors, minor typos and misplacement of input variables were present, but were fixed when rereading and editing my code at the end of the project. If more time was given for this, I would have wanted to continue expanding the number of anime in my database and create more pieces of data to put in the anime records, such as Japanese dub actors and English dub actors. Although the process of finding the information for each anime and writing the Scheme database itself was time consuming, it was definitely worth the time and effort. In addition to adding more anime record entries, I would also like to play around with some display text so it would be easier for someone to use the database without typing an entire line of code. Once I familiarize myself with some more Scheme code and revisit old concepts from this past semester, I would like to continue working with this database and create new databases with more data inputs and functions.

**Note: I have a sample input for almost every function in my code and its sample output if you need to test the code.
